肇庆市中小学教学质量评估
2016—2017学年第一学期统一检测
高 二 英 语
本试卷共8页，卷面满分135分。考试用时120分钟。
注意事项：
    1.本试卷分第I卷(选择题)和第II卷(非选择题)两部分。答卷前，考生务必将自己的姓名、
考生号、考场号和座位号填写在答题卡上。因测试不考听力，第I卷从第二部分的“阅
读理解”开始，试题序号从“21”开始。
    2.回答第I卷时，选出每小题答案后，用铅笔把答题卡上对应题目的答案标号涂黑。如
需改动，用橡皮擦干净后，再选涂其它答案标号。写在本试卷上无效。
    3.回答第II卷时，将答案写在答题卡上。写在本试卷上无效。
4.考试结束后，将本试卷和答题卡一并交回。

第I卷
第二部分  阅读理解（共两节，满分40分）
第一节（共15小题：每小题2分，满分30分）
阅读下列短文，从每题所给的四个选项（A、B、C和D）中选出最佳选项，并在答题卡上将该项涂黑。
A
A DAY OUT IN BRITAIN
    Are you planning to visit Britain? Here are a few suggestions for a beautiful weekend away.
Bournemouth 
  This famous tourist town has 11 km of beautiful beaches. Last year, 10,000 tourists visited this beautiful town. It’s the perfect place to go swimming or sailing. There are lots of lovely parks and gardens to visit and it’s a great place to eat out. You can also go to a classical concert or go dancing in one of the nightclubs.
Stratford-upon-Avon
This was William Shakespeare’s hometown. He spent most of his life in this town and wrote his plays here. You can visit his house or see his plays at one of the Royal Shakespeare Company’s   theatres. There are some interesting museums and lots of beautiful 500-year-old house. You can also go on boat trips and visit traditional English villages.
Alford
Deep in the Lincolnshire countryside is the pleasant market town of Alford. It is known for its five-sailed windmill(风车). Have a walk round this lovely old place and you’ll see many pleasant houses from as far back as the 17th century. Captain James Smith, who was one of the founders of James town in Virginia, USA, was educated in Alford.
Bath
Most people come here to see the 2’000-year-old Roman Baths. But this city is also famous for its beautiful 18th century buildings and was the home of the writer Jane Austen. You can learn about her life at the Jane Austen Centre near Queen’s Square. In the past, Bath was also popular with the royal family and Queen Elizabeth I spent one or two weeks every year here.
21. What can visitors do in Bournemouth?
A．Enjoy plays. 	B. Go to museums.  	C. Do sea sports.    	D. Visit fishing villages.
22. What is Alford famous for?
A. Its stars.     	B. Its market.    		C. Its windmill.   		D. Its nightclubs.
Which place did a queen of England use to visit regularly?
A. Bath.        	B. Alford.       		C. Stratford-upon-Avon.  	D. Bournemouth.

B
It was a long week for Amanda at school. She stayed after school to work on a special project(课题) three days in a row. When she got home on Friday, she dropped into the chair with a sigh.
“What’s going on, Amanda?” her dad asked as he was reading the newspaper.
“I have to create a webpage for my technology class, and it is taking a lot more time than I thought it would,” Amanda answered.
Her dad looked over his newspaper and asked Amanda what the webpage was about.
“It’s about the difference between newspaper news and Internet news,” Amanda said and added, “I have to provide information, examples and illustrations(插图).”
“Sounds tough; do you have someone to help you?” her dad asked.
“I have a partner named Zach,” Amanda replied. “We did research on the Internet today and found some pictures to use.”
Then Amanda explained to her father the main differences: newspaper news is printed on paper, and Internet news is published online; newspaper news is only available once a day, and Internet news is published almost as soon as the news happens; many newspapers don’t even print a daily paper, and Internet news is published around the clock.
Amanda’s dad asked, “Which type of news do you like better?”
“I like Internet news better because I like to learn about the news when it happens,” she answered.
Her dad said, “I still like newspaper news better because I like to hold the paper in my hands and turn the pages.”
Amanda dropped into her chair again and said, “You are so old school, Dad.”
24. Why did Amanda sigh when she came home?
 A. She failed to pass the exam.           	  B. She was tired of school life.
 C. She was worried about her school project. 	  D. She made a mistake in her technology class.
25. What did Amanda’s father think of her work on creating a webpage for her technology class?
 A. Exciting.  	B. Boring.  	C. Interesting.   	D. Difficult.
Which of the following may Amanda agree with?
 A. People should pay for Internet news.   		 B. Newspaper news will soon disappear.
 C. Internet news is given to readers in good time.  D. It is wrong to say no to newspaper news.
27. What kind of person is Amanda’s father?
 A. He is a man who misses the past.        
 B. He is a man who cares little about news.
 C. He is a man who knows the computer well.  
 D. He is a man who cannot live without the Internet.

C
Alexander von Humboldt was born in 1769 in Berlin, Germany. As a young boy, he wanted to learn about the world. Humboldt followed his dream. In 1799, he traveled with a friend to Central and South America.
On their trip, Humboldt and his friend saw and did many things. They sailed down the Amazon River. They watched dolphins play in the ocean. They explored the rain forest and climbed mountains and volcanoes. They were able to make the first maps of the northern part of South America.
Humboldt set a world record for mountain climbing. He also made a discovery. During his climb, Humboldt became very sick. He found out that the higher he climbed, the less oxygen there was in the air. This made it more difficult to breathe. Later, this became known as mountain sickness.
Science was another part of Humboldt’s interests. He wanted to write about all of the new things he saw. He described the new plants, animals, and rocks which had never been seen by scientists before. 
Humboldt also studied the way of life of the local people. He learned how the native people along the Amazon River used plants in their daily lives. For example, they used a strong poison from a vine(蔓生植物) to make poisoned arrows. The natives used these arrows for hunting their food.
The Amazon Indians also used a native plant to treat malaria (疟疾), a serious illness. The plant grew wild, but after it was dug up, it was never replanted. Humboldt warned the natives that the plant was in danger of dying out. He looked for ways to preserve the plant and to make it grow strong.
Although Humboldt took many risks during his trip, he lived to be 90 years old. In his lifetime, he made many discoveries and shared them with the world. As a tribute (颂扬) to Humboldt, there are rivers and mountains named after him.
28. We can infer that Humboldt was probably a (n)_______.
 A. explorer     	B. inventor    	C. doctor    		D. writer
29. Humboldt and his friend made maps of_______.
 A. the central part of South America  		B. the northern part of South America
 C. the north part of Central America  		D. the southern part of Central America
30. What do we know about mountain sickness?
 A. It can be treated with a plant.         	B. It is a serious illness like malaria.
 C. It mainly influences one’s breathing.   	D. It was discovered by Humboldt’s friend.
31. We can tell from the text that Humboldt was_______.
 A. easy-going    	B. imaginative    	C. optimistic    	D. ambitious

D
The Arctic will soon be free from ice, experts say. The change is bound to take place, but the global warming and climate change are changing the earth’s landscape (地形) rapidly，causing panic worldwide.
   Experts say that the Arctic sea ice is melting (融化) quite faster than expected and it can affect not just the region, but Earth in general. A scientist even says that next year, or maybe the year after that, the Arctic will be free of ice. 
    Peter Wadhams, a scientist, said that the melting trend led to his statement. “Most people expect this year will see a record low in the Arctic’s summer sea-ice cover. Next year or the year after that, I think it will be free of ice in summer and by that I mean the central Arctic will be ice-free,” Peter Wadhams, director of the Scott Polar Institute in Cambridge, said in an interview with the Guardian. “You will be able to cross over the North Pole by ship,” Peter Wadhams added. He strongly believes that although some pieces of ice will remain, the Arctic basin may be free of sea ice in the next two years starting in the summer of 2017.
Wadhams’ study says that melting sea ice will have a great influence on the planet since the sea ice is more capable of reflecting (反射) sunlight compared to water that can only reflect 10% of the sunlight. Once the sea ice melts, the water can only reflect a small amount of sunlight. This means that the Earth will receive and absorb more sunlight, making the planet even hotter. 
The year 2016 has already broken records of the hottest temperature ever recorded and the trend doesn’t seem to show any decrease in global warming. “It doesn’t look like the ice is healing and growing back,” Tom Wagner, NASA’s manager for cryosphere (冰冻圈) research said in a statement. 
Like Wadhams, scientists and researchers all over the world are lecturing around to educate people to help lighten global warming that has already changed the planet’s landscape.
32. What does the author think of global warming and climate change?
 A. Indifferent   	B. Anxious   	C. Unbelievable      D. Misunderstood
33. What can we learn from the second paragraph?
 A. What experts say has caused worldwide fear and great anxiety.
 B. The speed of the Arctic sea ice being melted is beyond expectation.
 C. The melting of the Arctic sea ice only has a great effect on this region.
 D. It’s impossible that the Arctic will be free from ice in one or two years. 
34. Why would the Earth become even hotter if the sea ice melted? Because_____.
 A. more water will cover the earth.     		B. there are more hours of daylight. 
 C. the water will reflect more sunlight.  		D. more heat would be taken in by the earth. 
35. What is the passage mainly about?
 A. According to some experts, the Arctic may be free from ice soon because of global warming and climate change.
 B. The Arctic melting sea ice will affect the planet greatly.
 C. The Arctic will be free from ice in two years.
 D. Global warming are changing the earth’s landscape quickly. 

第二节 （共5小题，每小题2分，满分10分）
   根据短文内容，从短文后的选项中选出能填入空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将该项涂黑。选项中有两项为多余选项。
The Human Camera
There is not anybody else quite like Stephen Wiltshire. Born in 1974, Stephen was always different.  36      In fact, he talked to nobody, showed no interest in school subjects and wasn’t able to sit still. Stephen was later told that he had autism(自闭症). He didn’t learn fully to talk until he was nine years old and he didn’t manage to pass his exams.   37   Art became his way to communicate.
    He started by drawing funny pictures of his teachers, but soon began to draw buildings. His eye for detail was perfect. He could see a building just once and remember everything about it.    38   Hours later, in front of TV cameras, he managed to draw this building, with the time on the station clock saying 11:20, the exact time when he was there. The television programme made him famous overnight in the UK.
　　   39   He has become a well-known artist, published four books of his drawings, taken helicopter(直升机) rides above the world’s great cities and drawn amazing pictures of them, and opened his own art gallery, where he now works, in London.
    His drawings are correct and true in every detail--he always manages to draw everything in the right place.   40     In 2006, he was given an MBE(Member of the Order British Empire) by the Queen of England for services to art.
 Floating Cities was his third book.
 As a child, he couldn’t make friends.
 Besides, they are also beautiful to look at.
 Luckily he found one thing he liked doing: drawing. 
 After that, many great things have happened to Stephen.
 In 1987, he saw a train station in London called St Pancras.
 On 15 February 2008, ABC News named him Person of the Week.
第三部分 英语知识运用 （共两节，满分45）
完形填空（共20小题；每小题15分，满分30分）
阅读下面短文，从短文后各题所给的四个选项（A、B、C和D）中，选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项，并在答题卡上将该项涂黑。
It’s never too late to admit that you are in the wrong. Being humans, we all need to know the art of   41  . Look back with   42   and think how often you’ve judged roughly, said unkind things, and pushed yourself ahead at the   43   of a friend. Then count the occasions when you indicated clearly and truly that you were   44  . A bit frightening, isn’t it? It is frightening because some deep wisdom   45   us knows that when even a small wrong has been committed, some mysterious moral feeling is disturbed; and it stays out of   46   until fault is acknowledged and   47   expressed. 
I remember a doctor friend, Clarence Lieb, telling me about a man who came to him with a variety of   48  : headaches, insomnia and stomach trouble. No physical cause could be   49  . Finally Dr. Lieb said to the man, “  50   you tell me what’s worrying you, I can’t help you.”
After some   51  , the man confessed that, as executor (执行人) of his father’s will, he had been   52     his brother, who lived abroad, of his inheritance (继承权). Then and there the   53   old doctor made the man   54   to his brother asking for forgiveness and enclosing a cheque as the first step in restoring their good   55    . He then went with him to the mailbox in the corridor (走廊). As the letter disappeared, the man burst into   56  . “Thank you,” he said, “I think I’m   57  .” And he was.
A heartfelt apology can not only heal a damage relationship but also make it   58  . If you can think of someone who   59   an apology from you, someone you have wronged, or judged too roughly, or just neglected, do something about   60   right now.  
A. apologizing   		B. expressing    		C. speaking    		D. explaining
A. truth   			B. honesty   			C. value  			D. pleasure
A. loss  				B. price   			C. failure   			D. expense
A. bad  				B. sad  				C. sorry  			D. surprised
A. for  				B. with   			C. about 				D. in
A. problem  			B. balance   			C. heart  			D. trouble
A. regret   			B. interest  			C. care   			D. kindness
A. shows  			B. complaints  		C. signs  			D. questions
A. trusted  			B. tested  			C. examined  		D. found  
A. Whether  			B. Unless  			C. When  			D. Until
A. decision  			B. recalling   		C. hesitation  		D. remembering
A. cheating  			B. lying   			C. telling  			D. taking  
A. wise  				B. eager  			C. puzzled  			D. excited 
A. travel  			B. apologize  		C. write  			D. express
A. relation  			B. condition   		C. situation   		D. attention
A. smiles  			B. crying   			C. laughing  			D. tears
A. treated  			B. cured  			C. caught  			D. arrested
A. harder  			B. wider  			C. warmer  			D. stronger
A. needs  			B. deserves  			C. requires  			D. requests
A. him  				B. these  			C. it  				D. one 

第二节 语法填空（共10小题；每小题1.5分，满分15分）
阅读下面材料，在空白处填入适当的内容（1个单词)或括号内单词的正确形式。
Jane had two little boys aged 8 to 10. They were so naughty      61      they were always getting into trouble. Jane heard that a clergyman (牧师)      62      town was successful in teaching children. So Jane asked him to talk with her     63      (boy). The clergyman agreed      64      asked to see the boys one by one. Jane sent her 8-year-old boy      65      (see) the clergyman first in the morning. The clergyman, a big man,      66      (sit) the younger boy down and asked in a serious voice, “Where is God?”      67      boy’s mouth was wide open, but he made no answer. Then the clergyman repeated the question even      68      (serious). “Where is God?” Again the boy made no answer. So the clergyman shouted angrily “WHERE IS GOD?”
The boy cried out. He escaped from the room and ran directly home. He rushed into his bedroom and shut the door      69      (hurry) behind him. When his older brother found him, he asked, “What happened?”
The younger brother replied in a      70      (frighten) voice, “We are in BIG trouble this time. God is missing and they think WE did it!”

第四部分 词汇、句型与写作(共两节，满分35分)
第一节 词汇基础（共10小题；每小题1.5分，满分15分）
根据句意及所给单词的首字母或汉语提示，用单词的恰当形式填空。
71. The audience was completely thrown into a _________ (恐慌) when the big fire suddenly started in the cinema. 
72. With so many different forms of poetry to choose from, students may e_________ want to write poems of their own.        
73. The problem begins when we add huge q_________ of extra carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. 
74. These two _________ (签名) are very similar. Can you tell me apart?
75. If you develop AIDS, your chances of s_________ are very small. 
76. The water companies _________ (接到指令) not to expose people to polluted water any more. 
77. England is the largest of the four countries, and for convenience it is d_________ roughly into three zones. 
78. Her parents gave her so much money that she’s got no _________ (动机) to get a job. 
79. The information gathered by the telescopes _________ (处理) by computers tomorrow.
80. The cool water stops the burning process, prevents the pain becoming u_________ and reduces swelling. 

第二节 短文改错(共10小题；每小题1分，满分10分)
    假定英语课上老师要求同桌之间交换修改作文，请你修改你同桌写的以下作文。文中共有l0处语言错误，每句中最多有两处。每处错误仅涉及一个单词的增加、删除或修改。
增加：在缺词处加一个漏字符号(∧)，并在其下面写出该加的词。
删除：把多余的词用斜线(＼)划掉。
修改：在错的词下划一横线，并在该词下面写出修改后的词。
注意：1．每处错误及其修改均仅限一词；
      2．只允许修改10处，多者(从笫11处起)不计分。
My parents and I had made a tour to Xi’an last summer holiday. Instead of having a travel agency arranging our transportation and accommodation, we booked the train tickets and hotel rooms on the Internet by us. During our tour in Xi’an, we went to many places of interests and took lots of photos, learned about the history of Xi’an. No tourists would miss the local food in Xi’an, so would we. We enjoyed the typical local food, it tasted more delicious than we had expected. Hardly had I returned than I shared the photos and experiences for my classmates. The trip to Xi’an has been such happy memory to me that I will never forget it. 

第三节  书面表达（满分25分）
假设你是肇庆市星湖中学的学生李华，你在某英文论坛上看到一个帖子。澳大利亚中学生Mike想来中国旅游，你向他推荐了肇庆市，请根据以下提示写一封电子邮件。
内容包括：1. 自我介绍；2. 推荐理由；
注意：1. 信的开头和结尾已给出，不计入总词数；2. 可以适当增加细节；3. 词数100左右。
Dear Mike,
I’m very glad to have read the post that you put on the English Forum.                      
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
I do hope that you will have a good time in China. Best Wishes!
		Sincerely yours,
                                                              Li Hua
肇庆市中小学教学质量评估
2016—2017学年第二学期统一检测试题
高二英语参考答案

第一部分 阅读理解（共两节，满分40分）
第一节（共15小题：每小题2分，满分30分）
A篇CCA       
B篇CDCA      
C篇ABCD        
D篇BBDA
第二节 （共5小题，每小题2分，满分10分）
BDFEC
第二部分 英语知识运用 （共两节，满分45）
第一节：完形填空（共20小题；每小题15分，满分30分）
完形填空1：
41--45ACDBA    46--50BCDAA      51--55CBDCD      56--60ABCBD
完形填空2：
41—45 ABDCD 		46—50 BACDB 		51—55 CAACA 		56—60 DBDBC
第二节 语法填空（共10小题；每小题1.5分，满分15分）
61. getting   		62. in   		63. boys   			64. but  			65. to see
66. sat   		67. The  	68. more seriously   	69. hurriedly  70. frightened
第四部分 词汇、句型与写作(共两节，满分35分)
第一节 词汇基础
71. (U5B6) panic      
72. (U2B6 Reading 1 ) eventually       
73. (U4B6 Reading 1) quantities
74. (U1B6) signatures
75. (U3B6 ) survival
76. (U1B5 Reading 1) were instructed 
77. (U2B5 Reading 1) divided 
78. (U3B5) motivation
79. (U4B5) will be processed/handled
80. (U5B5 Reading 1) 90. unbearable

短文改错(共10小题；每小题1分，满分10分)

My parents and I had made a tour to Xi’an last summer holiday. Instead of having a travel agency arranging our transportation and accommodation, we booked the train tickets and hotel room on the Internet by us. During our tour in Xi’an, we went to many places of interests, and took lots of photos, learned about the history of Xi’an. No tourists will miss the local food in Xi’an, so will we. We enjoyed the typically local foods, which tasted delicious. Before I returned, I couldn’t wait to share the photos and experiences for my classmates. The trip to Xi’an has been such ٨ happy memory to me that I will never forget it. 

第三节  书面表达（满分25分）
One possible version
Dear Mike,
I’m very glad to have read the post that you put on the English Forum. I strongly recommend that you pay a visit to Zhaoqing.
I’m Li Hua, a student from Xinghu Middle School, good at Chinese geography and history. When it comes to travelling in China, Zhaoqing is a popular tourist destination. Zhaoqing is not only a city with a long history but also has many places of interests, where you can enjoy yourself to the full degree. Besides, people in Zhaoqing are friendly and willing to help others in need, making your visit comfortable and pleasant. Particularly, you can take a chance to experience different cultures and enjoy a variety of delicious snacks in Zhaoqing. By the way, I’d like to serve as your guide if you come.
I do hope that you will have a good time in China. Best wishes!
                                                      Sincerely yours,
                                                        Li Hua


                           










a

ourselves

nor

After

with

typical

learning

interest

arrange



